README.md, before:

# MiniGoogleCloudCollector
This program retrieves data from Google Cloud Platform (GCP) and displays it in a web browser.

The program retrieves the following data from GCP:
- Storage buckets
- IAM roles
- VM instances

## How to Run the Program

There are two simple ways to run the program:

[A. Using Docker](#a-using-docker) (No cloning required <span style="color: grey"> unless you want to encrypt your key file locally: [3-b](#3-b-encrypt-your-key-file-on-your-local-machine-and-mount-the-encrypted-key-file-to-the-container)</span>)

[B. Using Python](#b-using-python) (You will need to install Python and its dependencies.)

We recommend using Docker to run the program.

### A. Using Docker

To run the program using Docker, follow these steps:

1. <u>**Pull the Docker image from Docker Hub.**</u>

    You can find the latest version of the Docker image at this link: [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/irenekang/minigooglecloudcollector/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated)

    Pull the Docker image by running the following command:
    ```bash
    docker pull irenekang/minigooglecloudcollector:v1.0.4
    ```
2. <u>**Run the Docker container.**</u>

    There are four options when running the Docker container. You can choose one of the following options:
    <!-- <!-- list of links to headings -- To use link to headings, use the following format: [link text](#heading-name) -->
    [1) Basic run](#1-basic-run)

    [2) Run with logs](#2-run-with-logs)

    [3) Run with credentials key file](#3-run-with-credentials-key-file)

    [4) Run with logs and credentials key file](#4-run-with-logs-and-credentials-key-file)


    #### 1) Basic run
    ```bash
    docker run -p 8000:8000 irenekang/minigooglecloudcollector:v1.0.1
    ```

    <br><br>

    #### 2) Run with logs
    Make sure you have a directory that you can mount to the container.
    You will be able to retrieve the `log.log` file in the directory you mounted.
    ```bash
    docker run -p 8000:8000 -v $(pwd)/mnt/logs:/mnt/logs irenekang/minigooglecloudcollector:v1.0.1
    ```
    Replace `$(pwd)/mnt/logs` with the path to the directory where you want to save the log file.

    <br><br>

    #### 3) Run with credentials key file

    For the security of your GCP account, the program will not accept the credentials key file directly. Instead, you need to encrypt the key file and pass the encryption key as an environment variable.

    You can either
    - [3-a) Mount the key file to the container directly and encrypt your key file on the container](#3-a-mount-the-key-file-to-the-container-directly-and-encrypt-your-key-file-on-the-container)
    - [3-b) Encrypt your key file on your local machine and mount the encrypted key file to the container](#3-b-encrypt-your-key-file-on-your-local-machine-and-mount-the-encrypted-key-file-to-the-container)

    <br><br>

    #### 3-a) Mount the key file to the container directly and encrypt your key file on the container

    **1) Mount the key file to the container**

    Replace the following:
    - `$(pwd)/mnt/encrypted_keys` with the directory you want to mount to the container.
    - `486` with the <span style="color: pink">*YoUR_oWn_EnCryPTiOn_kEY*</span> that you want to use as a password.

    ```bash
    docker run -p 8000:8000 -v $(pwd)/mnt/encrypted_keys:/mnt/encrypted_keys -e ENCRYPTION_KEY=486 irenekang/minigooglecloudcollector:v1.0.1
    ```

    Now, put your credentials key file in the directory you mounted.

    <br>

    **2) Encrypt your key file on the container**

    On the container, run the following command to encrypt the key file:

    ```bash
    ./encrypt_key_file.sh
    ```

    Follow the instructions to encrypt the key file. You must enter the <span style="color: pink">*YoUR_oWn_EnCryPTiOn_kEY*</span> that you set when running the container.

    <br><br>


    #### 3-b) Encrypt your key file on your local machine and mount the encrypted key file to the container

    **1) Encrypt your key file**
    
    To encrypt the key file locally, you can clone [encrypt_key_file.sh](encrypt_key_file.sh).

    You can also download the script by running the following command:

    ```bash
    curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kangwork/MiniGoogleCloudCollector/main/encrypt_key_file.sh
    ```
    
    Then, run the script by running the following command:

    ```bash
    ./encrypt_key_file.sh
    ```

    You will be asked to enter your credentials key file path and set your own <span style="color: pink">*YoUR_oWn_EnCryPTiOn_kEY*</span>, it will serve as a password to decrypt the key file.

    Then, as the message says, the encrypted file will be saved in `mnt/encrypted_keys` directory.

    NOTE: You can rename the directory(not the file itself), but you will mount the directory to the container's `/mnt/encrypted_keys` directory.

    <br>

    **2) Mount the encrypted key file to the container.**

    Replace the following:
    - `$(pwd)/mnt/encrypted_keys` with the directory where the encrypted key file(`key.json.gpg`) is located.
    - `486` with the <span style="color: pink">*YoUR_oWn_EnCryPTiOn_kEY*</span> you set when encrypting the key file.
    ```bash
    docker run -p 8000:8000 -v $(pwd)/mnt/encrypted_keys:/mnt/encrypted_keys -e ENCRYPTION_KEY=486 irenekang/minigooglecloudcollector:v1.0.1
    ```

    <br><br>


    #### 4) Run with logs and credentials key file
    
    Follow the steps in [3) Run with credentials key file](#3-run-with-credentials-key-file) to encrypt your key file and mount it to the container.

    You can run the container with logs and credentials key file by running the following command:

    ```bash
    docker run -p 8000:8000 -v /path/to/your/logs/directory:/mnt/logs -v /path/to/your/encrypted_keys/directory:/mnt/encrypted_keys -e ENCRYPTION_KEY=486 irenekang/minigooglecloudcollector:v1.0.1
    ```

    Again, please make sure to replace:
    
    - `/path/to/your/logs/directory` and `/path/to/your/encrypted_keys/directory` with the paths to the directories where you want to save the log file and the encrypted key file, respectively.

    - `486` with the <span style="color: pink">*YoUR_oWn_EnCryPTiOn_kEY*</span> you set when encrypting the key file.

<br><br><br>

### B. Using Python

To run the program by cloning the repository, follow these steps:

1. <u>**Clone the repository**</u>
    
    <br><br>

2. <u>**Navigate to the `src` directory**</u>

    <br><br>

3. <u>*(Optional)* **Assuming you have Python installed, create a virtual environment and activate it**</u>
    ```bash
    make activate
    ```
    (If you don't have Python installed, you can install it by following the instructions at this link: [Python Installation Guide](https://realpython.com/installing-python/))

    Follow the message in the terminal to activate the virtual environment.

    <br><br>

4. <u>*(Optional)* **To use the credentials key file:**</u>
    
    **4-1) Encrypt your key file.**
    ```bash
    ../encrypt_key_file.sh
    ```

    **4-2) Set the environment variable.**
    ```bash
    export ENCRYPTION_KEY=486
    ```
    Replace `486` with the <span style="color: pink">*YoUR_oWn_EnCryPTiOn_kEY*</span> you set when encrypting the key file.

<br><br>

5. <u>**Run the program**</u>
- If you have set up a virtual environment, run the following command:
    ```bash
    make run
    ```
- Otherwise, run the following command:
    ```bash
    pip install -r ../pkg/pip_requirements.txt
    python main.py
    ```

Commit message:

[README] Added - 'Table of Contents' - 'Live Site'

README.md, after:

# MiniGoogleCloudCollector
This program retrieves data from Google Cloud Platform (GCP) and displays it in a web browser.

The program retrieves the following data from GCP:
- Storage buckets
- IAM roles
- VM instances

<br>

## Table of Contents
- [Live Site](#live-site)
- [How to Run the Program](#how-to-run-the-program)
    - [A. Using Docker](#a-using-docker)
    - [B. Using Python](#b-using-python)

<br>

## Live Site
You can access the live site at this link: [MiniGoogleCloudCollector](http://3.99.217.168:8000/docs).

**Note:** Not all functionalities and features are available directly through this site. For full functionality <span style="color: grey"> (e.g., access to log files, using key credentials files) </span>, please follow the steps outlined later in this document.

<br>

## How to Run the Program

There are two simple ways to run the program:

[A. Using Docker](#a-using-docker) (No cloning required <span style="color: grey"> unless you want to encrypt your key file locally: [3-b](#3-b-encrypt-your-key-file-on-your-local-machine-and-mount-the-encrypted-key-file-to-the-container)</span>)

[B. Using Python](#b-using-python) (You will need to install Python and its dependencies.)

We recommend using Docker to run the program.

### A. Using Docker

To run the program using Docker, follow these steps:

1. <u>**Pull the Docker image from Docker Hub.**</u>

    You can find the latest version of the Docker image at this link: [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/irenekang/minigooglecloudcollector/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated)

    Pull the Docker image by running the following command:
    ```bash
    docker pull irenekang/minigooglecloudcollector:v1.0.4
    ```
2. <u>**Run the Docker container.**</u>

    There are four options when running the Docker container. You can choose one of the following options:
    <!-- <!-- list of links to headings -- To use link to headings, use the following format: [link text](#heading-name) -->
    [1) Basic run](#1-basic-run)

    [2) Run with logs](#2-run-with-logs)

    [3) Run with credentials key file](#3-run-with-credentials-key-file)

    [4) Run with logs and credentials key file](#4-run-with-logs-and-credentials-key-file)


    #### 1) Basic run
    ```bash
    docker run -p 8000:8000 irenekang/minigooglecloudcollector:v1.0.1
    ```

    <br><br>

    #### 2) Run with logs
    Make sure you have a directory that you can mount to the container.
    You will be able to retrieve the `log.log` file in the directory you mounted.
    ```bash
    docker run -p 8000:8000 -v $(pwd)/mnt/logs:/mnt/logs irenekang/minigooglecloudcollector:v1.0.1
    ```
    Replace `$(pwd)/mnt/logs` with the path to the directory where you want to save the log file.

    <br><br>

    #### 3) Run with credentials key file

    For the security of your GCP account, the program will not accept the credentials key file directly. Instead, you need to encrypt the key file and pass the encryption key as an environment variable.

    You can either
    - [3-a) Mount the key file to the container directly and encrypt your key file on the container](#3-a-mount-the-key-file-to-the-container-directly-and-encrypt-your-key-file-on-the-container)
    - [3-b) Encrypt your key file on your local machine and mount the encrypted key file to the container](#3-b-encrypt-your-key-file-on-your-local-machine-and-mount-the-encrypted-key-file-to-the-container)

    <br><br>

    #### 3-a) Mount the key file to the container directly and encrypt your key file on the container

    **1) Mount the key file to the container**

    Replace the following:
    - `$(pwd)/mnt/encrypted_keys` with the directory you want to mount to the container.
    - `486` with the <span style="color: pink">*YoUR_oWn_EnCryPTiOn_kEY*</span> that you want to use as a password.

    ```bash
    docker run -p 8000:8000 -v $(pwd)/mnt/encrypted_keys:/mnt/encrypted_keys -e ENCRYPTION_KEY=486 irenekang/minigooglecloudcollector:v1.0.1
    ```

    Now, put your credentials key file in the directory you mounted.

    <br>

    **2) Encrypt your key file on the container**

    On the container, run the following command to encrypt the key file:

    ```bash
    ./encrypt_key_file.sh
    ```

    Follow the instructions to encrypt the key file. You must enter the <span style="color: pink">*YoUR_oWn_EnCryPTiOn_kEY*</span> that you set when running the container.

    <br><br>


    #### 3-b) Encrypt your key file on your local machine and mount the encrypted key file to the container

    **1) Encrypt your key file**
    
    To encrypt the key file locally, you can clone [encrypt_key_file.sh](encrypt_key_file.sh).

    You can also download the script by running the following command:

    ```bash
    curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kangwork/MiniGoogleCloudCollector/main/encrypt_key_file.sh
    ```
    
    Then, run the script by running the following command:

    ```bash
    ./encrypt_key_file.sh
    ```

    You will be asked to enter your credentials key file path and set your own <span style="color: pink">*YoUR_oWn_EnCryPTiOn_kEY*</span>, it will serve as a password to decrypt the key file.

    Then, as the message says, the encrypted file will be saved in `mnt/encrypted_keys` directory.

    NOTE: You can rename the directory(not the file itself), but you will mount the directory to the container's `/mnt/encrypted_keys` directory.

    <br>

    **2) Mount the encrypted key file to the container.**

    Replace the following:
    - `$(pwd)/mnt/encrypted_keys` with the directory where the encrypted key file(`key.json.gpg`) is located.
    - `486` with the <span style="color: pink">*YoUR_oWn_EnCryPTiOn_kEY*</span> you set when encrypting the key file.
    ```bash
    docker run -p 8000:8000 -v $(pwd)/mnt/encrypted_keys:/mnt/encrypted_keys -e ENCRYPTION_KEY=486 irenekang/minigooglecloudcollector:v1.0.1
    ```

    <br><br>


    #### 4) Run with logs and credentials key file
    
    Follow the steps in [3) Run with credentials key file](#3-run-with-credentials-key-file) to encrypt your key file and mount it to the container.

    You can run the container with logs and credentials key file by running the following command:

    ```bash
    docker run -p 8000:8000 -v /path/to/your/logs/directory:/mnt/logs -v /path/to/your/encrypted_keys/directory:/mnt/encrypted_keys -e ENCRYPTION_KEY=486 irenekang/minigooglecloudcollector:v1.0.1
    ```

    Again, please make sure to replace:
    
    - `/path/to/your/logs/directory` and `/path/to/your/encrypted_keys/directory` with the paths to the directories where you want to save the log file and the encrypted key file, respectively.

    - `486` with the <span style="color: pink">*YoUR_oWn_EnCryPTiOn_kEY*</span> you set when encrypting the key file.

<br><br><br>

### B. Using Python

To run the program by cloning the repository, follow these steps:

1. <u>**Clone the repository**</u>
    
    <br><br>

2. <u>**Navigate to the `src` directory**</u>

    <br><br>

3. <u>*(Optional)* **Assuming you have Python installed, create a virtual environment and activate it**</u>
    ```bash
    make activate
    ```
    (If you don't have Python installed, you can install it by following the instructions at this link: [Python Installation Guide](https://realpython.com/installing-python/))

    Follow the message in the terminal to activate the virtual environment.

    <br><br>

4. <u>*(Optional)* **To use the credentials key file:**</u>
    
    **4-1) Encrypt your key file.**
    ```bash
    ../encrypt_key_file.sh
    ```

    **4-2) Set the environment variable.**
    ```bash
    export ENCRYPTION_KEY=486
    ```
    Replace `486` with the <span style="color: pink">*YoUR_oWn_EnCryPTiOn_kEY*</span> you set when encrypting the key file.

<br><br>

5. <u>**Run the program**</u>
- If you have set up a virtual environment, run the following command:
    ```bash
    make run
    ```
- Otherwise, run the following command:
    ```bash
    pip install -r ../pkg/pip_requirements.txt
    python main.py
    ```
